---
layout: post
title: "31 August 2025 GPU Swap"
parent: Posts
---

# AMD Switch
So the time has come to switch up my GPU to an AMD one. The reason for this is that the large majority
of the problems I have been facing are largely down to the NVIDIA RTX 3070. It is a two tiered problem:

- 8GB VRAM
- Problem with shared memory
- Games thinking it has more VRAM than it does

The main problem (which can be seen in games such as Resident Evil 4) is that the game thinks it has the full 8GB of
VRAM to play with. Well this isn't the case because the system needs a certain amount. The other problem is when that VRAM is exhausted, it doesn't
spill over into shared memory; the game just crashes. You can solve this with a `dxvk.conf` file for the game and probably a global file but this feels like something I shouldn't have to be doing.

Other games simply crash or just don't perform that well.

# Why Not Upgrade To A 50 Series Card?
Well, price is the big issue here. At the time of writing a 5070 card is around the same price as a RX 9070 XT and
for the same price the AMD card beats the NVIDIA card on both performance, thermals and price. Granted there are things the 5070 does better but overall the 9070 XT is a better card for the money.
The 5070 TI is the next best and does beat the 9070 XT but is at least £100 (minimum) more expensive AND I would still have the same problems.
In terms of value for money, the AMD beats NVIDIA and I am likely to have fewer problems.

# Surely More VRAM Will Solve All The Problems?
I hear you and you're probably not wrong BUT what happens when games need more VRAM and I hit the limit again? Linux just isn't a key target for gaming and as such whilst NVIDIA do provide drivers and may fix the VRAM issue, it doesn't mean I will be without problems and I have had to do a fair amount of fixes to just get it to work. Sure, I don't mind doing the fixes and I have gone into this project knowing I will need to fix things however, at some point I want things to just work.

# Sapphire Pure RX 9070 XT
So the card I chose was the Sapphire Pure RX 9070 XT. I chose this because it is fairly in the middle in terms of performance and the price point was just right.

# Observations
So because this is a fairly new card, it will need to use the latest Kernel for Ubuntu. I am not having any major issues with it but the odd occasional game does tell me to update the drivers. It's not a big thing but one I need to remember and that being on the LTS of a distribution may come back to bite me.

Now granted it is a much newer card than the 3070 so I of course would expect better performance. Things I didn't expect were in certain games like Subnautica, my CPU usage / temp actually decreased. My PC seemed to work less and the same could be said for a fair few games where the machine overall (not just GPU) performed better.

Every game I have tried runs smoothly with no fixes required and as for a "just plug it in and it works", it does exactly this.

# Move To Linux Permanently
Now that I have the AMD card in the system, I am firmly in the belief that Linux will be my main OS. I said that this was not a bash Microsoft exercise and I continue to hold this stance however with the recent and continuing issues with Windows 11 it is hard to not say something.
Windows 11 has been having more and more issues from wiping peoples SSDs to adding Recall and performance problems. Every update seems to bring a whole host of problems and it doesn't seem to be getting better. I don't want to be forced to an OS that, quite frankly, seems to just be causing nothing but headaches and not really serving its users. Linux updates won't be without their problems but I have much more control over these updates and if there are any problems, 90% will probably be of my own making.