---
layout: post
title: "10 August 2025 Game Tests"
parent: Posts
---

# Deadzone Rogue, Resident Evil 4, Satisfactory

## Deadzone Rogue
Some good tests this weekend with the mentioned games.
I did get a huge crash on Deadzone Rogue that was essentially the same as the problem I get in Starship Troopers. Looking at the GPU utilization, the GPU just stopped working. It could potentially have been two problems:

- VRAM exhaustion
- Overheating

I didn't want to rule out overheating but my hunch says VRAM was the problem. I turned my graphics settings down to "Normal" just to give my system some breathing room and i'll be honest, I didn't really see any visual changes so lets keep it there.
I added a dxvk.conf file with my standard settings and rebooted.

After trying the game again (and with the 1.0 release it allows you to re-join a game session your were in) there were no issues at all. The GPU does run a little warm but it at least didn't crash. I'd call that fixed.

## Resident Evil 4
Resident Evil 4 ran very well. When I got to the first "village" in the game, I was experiencing a lot of frame drops so I needed to go into the settings to change a few bits. Some of the graphical settings can't be changed until you are back at the main menu but I concentrated on the "processing" related settings to reduce the load on the GPU.
When changing settings in the newer resident evil games keep an eye on the VRAM usage. Don't take the settings right up to the limit, make sure they have a decent enough gap.

I am probably pushing my system to be able to run the games anyway BUT it did run once I had tweaked some graphical settings.

I can't advise what settings to tweak, you'll have to play around with them yourself.

## Satisfactory

The factory must grow.
The factory grew.